# mlp
This project is done in Python using NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Sklearn, and Seaborn. I used the famous Titanic dataset to build a machine learning model that predicts the survival of the passengers based on their demographics. After cleaning the data and focusing only on age, sex, class, and survival, I made a correlation matrix to determine the signifigance of the covariance of the variables. Each variable pair had a negative pearson coefficient, meaning they will move in opposite directions of each other. I separated the data by survivors and non survivors, and then by sex and age. The plot shows that women between the ages of 14 and 40 were most likely to survive and men between the ages of 18 and 30 were most likely to survive. Men had low survival rates between the ages of 5 and 18 and infants had a high probability of survival. Next I plotted class, sex, and survival on a facet grid and it showed that class was negatively correlated with survival in both men and women. A bar plot follows to visually represent this specific correlation, as the passenger class number increased, ther rate of survival decreased. Using this relationship I created another facet grid and mapped it onto a histogram for better visualization. This plot confirms that first class passengers were most likely to survive and also shows a high probability that third class passengers will not survive. After testing multiple learning algorithms, the Random Forest classifier had the highest score. K-fold cross validation gave the model and average accuracy of 78% and a standard deviation of 2%. Random forest allows for the measuring of relative importance of each variable. Sex had the highest importance, followed by class and then age. Finally, using a confusion matrix, I tested the accuracy of the model and found that 497 passengers were correctly classified as not survived (true negatives), 52 passengers were wrongly classified as not survived (false positives), 131 passengers were wrongly classified as survived (false negatives), 211 passengers were correctly classified as survived (true positives). The model predicts a passengers survival correctly 80% of the time and the model predicted the survival of 62% of the actual survivors. The final F-score of the model was 0.69752.
